# Create a Double Line Segment Plot

Creae a plot showing two line segments. The union or intersection of
those line segments can also be generated by utilizing the `type`
argument.

## Usage

``` r
dlsegments(
  x1 = c(3, 7),
  x2 = c(5, 9),
  l = c("o", "o"),
  r = c("c", "c"),
  type = c("n", "u", "i"),
  COL = 2,
  lwd = 2.224,
  ylim = c(-0.35, 2),
  mar = rep(0, 4),
  hideOrig = FALSE
)
```

## Arguments

- x1:

  The endpoints of the first interval. Values larger (smaller) than 999
  (-999) will be interpreted as (negative) infinity.

- x2:

  The endpoints of the second interval. Values larger (smaller) than 999
  (-999) will be interpreted as (negative) infinity.

- l:

  A vector of length 2, where the values correspond to the left end
  point of each interval. A value of `"o"` indicates the interval is
  open at the left and `"c"` indicates the interval is closed at this
  end.

- r:

  A vector of length 2, where the values correspond to the right end
  point of each interval. A value of `"o"` indicates the interval is
  open at the right and `"c"` indicates the interval is closed at this
  end.

- type:

  By default, no intersection or union of the two lines will be shown
  (value of `"n"`). To show the union of the line segments, specify
  `"u"`. To indicate that the intersection be shown, specify `"i"`.

- COL:

  If the union or intersection is to be shown (see the `type` argument),
  then this parameter controls the color that will be shown.

- lwd:

  If the union or intersection is to be shown (see the `type` argument),
  then this parameter controls the width of any corresponding lines or
  open points in the union or intersection.

- ylim:

  A vector of length 2 specifying the vertical plotting limits, which
  may be useful for fine-tuning plots. The default is `c(-0.35,2)`.

- mar:

  A vector of length 4 that represent the plotting margins.

- hideOrig:

  An optional argument that to specify that the two line segments should
  be shown (`hideOrig` takes value `FALSE`, the default) or that they
  should be hidden (`hideOrig` takes value `TRUE`.

## See also

[`lsegments`](https://openintrostat.github.io/openintro/reference/lsegments.md),
[`CCP`](https://openintrostat.github.io/openintro/reference/CCP.md),
[`ArrowLines`](https://openintrostat.github.io/openintro/reference/ArrowLines.md)

## Author

David Diez

## Examples

``` r

dlsegments(c(-3, 3), c(1, 1000),
  r = c("o", "o"), l = c("c", "o"), COL = COL[4]
)

dlsegments(c(-3, 3), c(1, 1000),
  r = c("o", "o"), l = c("c", "o"), type = "un", COL = COL[4]
)


dlsegments(c(-3, 3), c(1, 1000),
  r = c("o", "o"), l = c("c", "o"), type = "in", COL = COL[4]
)
```
