# World Development Indicators, 2022.

Adata frame with 217 rows and 11 variables from the World Development
Indicators (WDI) available from the World Bank. The rows contain only
country level data. Regional groupings such as the European Union (EU)
and financial groupings such as low income countries have been
eliminated. World Bank Country codes (iso2c, iso3c) have been dropped.
The data were downloaded from the World Bank on 17 July 2024 using the R
package WDI, version 2.8.8, Arel-Bundock V (2022). *WDI: World
Development Indicators and Other World Bank Data*. R package version
2.7.8, <https://CRAN.R-project.org/package=WDI>. These data update the
dataset wdi.2011 in the previous version of the package, which is
outdated and has been removed. Some variable names have been changed for
readability and some constructed variables (e.g., log(gdp)) have not
been included. Missing values have been retained.

## Usage

``` r
wdi_2022
```

## Format

A data frame with 217 rows and 11 columns

- country:

  Character variable with country name

- gni_percap:

  Numeric, gross national income (GNI) per capita, based on purchasing
  power parity (PPP) in international \$

- gdp_percap:

  Numeric, gross domestic product (GDP) per capita, based on PPP in
  international \$

- life_expect:

  Numeric, life expectancy at birth, in years

- adolesc_fert_rate:

  Numeric, adolescent fertility rate, births per 1,000 women age 15 - 19

- total_fert_rate:

  Numeric, total fertility rate, births per woman

- infant_mortality_rate:

  Numeric, infant deaths per 1,000 live births

- perc_basic_sanit:

  Numeric, percent of the population with access to basic sanitation

- adult_lit_rate:

  Numeric, adult literacy rate, percent of population above the age of
  15 considered literate

- govt_expend_edu:

  Numeric, government expenditures on education as a percent of GDP

- female_prim_edu:

  Numeric, primary school completion rate among the relevant population
  of women

## Source

<https://data.worldbank.org/indicator>
